The OpenMP implementation of NPB 3.4.2 (NPB3.4-OMP)
----------------------------------------------------

For problem reports and suggestions on the implementation, 
please contact:

   NAS Parallel Benchmark Team
   npb@nas.nasa.gov


This directory contains the OpenMP implementation of the NAS
Parallel Benchmarks, Version 3.4.2 (NPB3.4-OMP).  A brief
summary of the new features introduced in this version is
given below.

For changes from different versions, see the Changes.log file
included in the upper directory of this distribution.

For explanation of compilation and running of the benchmarks,
please refer to README.install.


New features in NPB3.4-OMP of NPB 3.4.2:
  * New verification scheme for EP


New features in NPB3.4-OMP of NPB 3.4.1:
  * Changed Fortran sources from fixed form to free form

  * The blocking factor for FT can now be set via make option
    "VERSION=blk<n>"

  * Minor bug fix in reporting Fortran compiler used (F77->FC)

  * Changed the reference of "INTEGER*8" to "INTEGER(8)" in randi8.f

  * The proper data type for CG is set via setparams based problem size
    so that the [-i8] flag for building Class E or F is no longer required.


New features in NPB3.4-OMP:
  * Added the class E problem size for IS, and the class F problem 
    size for BT, LU, SP, CG, EP, FT, and MG.

  * Improves loop-level parallelism with the use of the OpenMP
    COLLAPSE clause available since OpenMP 3.0.  This version 
    requires an OpenMP compiler that supports this feature.

  * Re-introduced the hyperplane implementation of LU in the 
    distribution, which is accessible via the VERSION=HP make
    option during compilation. Included a third version of LU
    that uses the DOACROSS feature in OpenMP 4.0.  This version
    requires an OpenMP compiler that supports this feature.

  * Included versions of BT and SP with blocking factor to improve 
    cache performance, and selectable via the VERSION=BLK make
    option during compilation. These versions supersede the "vector"
    version introduced in version 3.3.

  * Included a version of UA that uses array reduction for atomic
    updates.  This version is selectable via the VERSION=rd make
    option during compilation.

  * The version uses Fortran modules and allocatable arrays to define 
    and manage global data (to replace common blocks) and Fortran 2003 
    IEEE arithmetic function to catch the NaN condition during verification.

    The version requires a compiler that supports features available
    in Fortran 90 and 2003. Because of these changes, the F77 flag 
    in make.def is renamed to FC.

  * The environment variable NPB_TIMER_FLAG is now used to enable 
    additional timers.


New features in NPB3.3-OMP:
   * NPB3.3-OMP introduces a new problem size (class E) to seven of 
     the benchmarks (BT, SP, LU, CG, MG, FT, and EP). The version 
     also includes a new problem size (class D) for the IS benchmark, 
     which was not present in the previous releases.

   * The release is merged with the vector codes for the BT and LU 
     benchmarks, which can be selected with the VERSION=VEC option 
     during compilation.  However, successful vectorization highly 
     depends on the compiler used.  Some changes to compiler directives 
     for vectorization in the current codes (see *_vec.f files)
     may be required.
